# Comparing-Machine-Learning-Algorithms
Analyzed and compared performance metrics between Logistic Regression and Deep Neural Network prediction models for Lung Cancer.



ABSTRACT:

Cancer is a disease in which normal functioning cells in the body become abnormal and divide uncontrollably. A cluster of these cells is called a tumor, and when a tumor grows and spreads into other tissues of the body the disease can become life-threatening. One of the most common cancers for women is breast cancer and for men, prostate cancer. For both men and women, colon cancer and lung cancer are also common. Lung cancer in particular is the most common type of cancer diagnosis in the world and one of the leading causes of preventable death. This makes it extremely important to confirm a positive diagnosis of lung cancer as early as possible. There are physical symptoms associated with lung cancer such as coughing, wheezing, fatigue, and many more. One method of determining a diagnoses of lung cancer is through machine learning algorithms that input a key list of the physical symptoms associated with the disease that an individual patient might be experiencing, such as the symptoms listed previously, and outputting a likelihood that the culmination of these symptoms in the patient is indicative of a positive case of lung cancer. This practice naturally invites the question of which machine learning algorithm is most accurate and efficient in determining such an intimate and devastating diagnosis as lung cancer. The following research seeks to answer this question by comparing two reputable machine learning models with an established footprint in modern academia: Logistic Regression and Deep Neural Networks.
